# Writing for Assignment&nbsp;3 Part&nbsp;2 2023 #

- **TODO Your name**
- **TODO Your student ID**
- **TODO Your tutorial group**
- **TODO Your tutor's name**
- **TODO Today's date in ISO 8601 format YYYY-MM-DD**

## Writing instructions ##

Imagine the instructions as engineering requirements, thus optional
instructions start "You **MAY**" but the rest start "You **MUST**."

1.  (Optional) Customise the CSS for accessibility needs.
2.  Personalise the information at the top of this file.
3.  Ensure you have acknowledged the tools and sources you have used.
4.  Be honest and don't cheat: this assignment is partly a test of your
    ability to cope with the second year.
5.  Write directly in English, do not translate from another language.
6.  Write in proper sentences. You are allowed to make use of lists and
    diagrams providing they enhance your work and are not simply a way
    to avoid writing. Any diagrams you do use must be jpgs and less
    than 1MB in size. The maximum allowed size of a submission is in
    the Assignment Submission instructions. Diagrams should be tested
    for accessibility (colour blindness and low vision) and include a
    reasonable attempt at an accessibility description.
7.  Your writing must make heavy use of specific references to the
    code. Generic writing that does not make use of the actual code
    provided are likely to be disqualified on the grounds of looking
    like AI-generated text.
8.  Your writing must use Java technical terms appropriately and you
    must give a brief explanation of each the first time you use it.
    Structure your answer so that the explanations do not interfere
    with reading the sentence where the term appears.
9.  Each answer needs to be long enough to cover the essential points
    but short enough to be interesting. Answers to individual
    questions over 200 words are probably too long. Balancing quantity
    of detail against brevity and utility is a technical writing skill
    you need to master.
10. The assignment instructions on the Learn Assessment page will tell
    you **how many of these writing questions to answer.**
11. **Delete guidance and hints before submission.**
12. **Delete these writing instructions before submission.**
13. **Delete the questions you have elected not to answer.**

## Acknowledgements ##

Imagine the instructions as engineering requirements, thus optional
instructions start "You **MAY**" but the rest start "You **MUST**."

1. (Optional) Customise the CSS for accessibility needs.
2. Personalise the information at the top of this file.
3. Choose an arrangement that is consistent, clear, and quick to read:
    1. by technology or by person listing all the parts they helped you
       with
    2. or by topic / theme listing all the technology and people who
       helped you
4. Acknowledge lecture notes, lab sheets, tutorials, the course
   reading, and any additional resources you have used.
5. Hyperlink help from written sources, such as the course reading,
   Piazza, and codegolf &mdash; it is not necessary to hyperlink to
   lecture materials instead say which lecture the information comes
   from
6. Use the abbreviated hyperlink generated by the website's `share`
   button for posts from the stackexchange / stackoverflow family
7. **Delete guidance and hints before submission.**
8. **Delete these acknowledgements instructions before submission.**

Put your acknowledgements here, arranged consistently by topic or
source of help. You can use lists or tables as appropriate as long as
the `markdown` works properly in IntelliJ.

## Code location ##

Explain why you put the code from `a3algorithms` into the specific
places in `literatureStats`. You must be specific about what went
where but you do not need to give an exhaustive list: try to find a
way to "optimise" your writing about this.

## DRY programming ##

Show and explain examples of DRY programming in this assigment and
where appropriate indicate what a WET version might look like.

## Relationships ##

Explain the relationships between `DataScientist` and the classes it
uses directly and indirectly, and why you think they were designed
that way. Be specific to the classes and methods in the assignment but
you might need to outline some Java concepts underpinning the
design. Also make use of advice from the course's Code Quality and
Conventions document, especially (but not only) DRY
programming. Ensure you answer covers the way the two different types
of `FrequencyDocument` are instantiated.

## Explain reading a file ##

Demonstrate how the work done for reading a file in
`literatureStats.FrequencyDocumentReader` is split between specific
methods including the one(s) that called it. This should be possible
to write about even if your code does not fully work. It is useful to
give brief explanations of how many of the JDK library methods you use
contribute to your implementation, though you are not required to
explain how those library methods work (unless you feel it is
essential). As part of your answer explain why JDK 7 or later is
recommended.

You also need to justify your algorithm design for reading a file, for
example the order of statements and the use of specific constructs.

If you were unable to make file reading work in
`FrequencyDocumentReader` then substitute any file-reading code you
did get working in `a3algorithms`.

## Explain your code for reading Project Gutenberg files ##

If you were able to make your code work read Project Gutenberg files
without their preamble and postamble, then explain your algorithm here
but only the parts that differ from your answer about reading an
entire file. Justify the relevant parts of your design.

## Explain your translate-to-dog implementation ##

If you implemented translating a word into doggie language, then
explain how your algorithm implements the specification in the `TODO`
comment. Do not give a line-by-line explanation or effectively just
restate the guidance in the `TODO` comment.

## Explain the enums ##

Explain how `enum`s are used in this assignment and the main benefits
they appear to bring. Describe several different salient points in
some detail rather than a lightning tour of everything in all `enum`s.
